<dl>
<dt>Physical machines (bare metal)</dt>
<dd>You can provision your worker node as a single-tenant physical server, also referred to as bare metal. Bare metal gives you direct access to the physical resources on the machine, such as the memory or CPU. This setup eliminates the virtual machine hypervisor that allocates physical resources to virtual machines that run on the host. Instead, all of a bare metal machine's resources are dedicated exclusively to the worker, so you don't need to worry about "noisy neighbors" sharing resources or slowing down performance.
<p><strong>Monthly billing</strong>: Bare metal servers are more expensive than virtual servers, and are best suited for high-performance apps that need more resources and host control. Bare metal servers are billed monthly. If you cancel a bare metal server before the end of the month, you are charged through the end of that month. Ordering and canceling bare metal servers is a manual process through your {[softlayer]} account. It can take more than one business day to complete.</p>
<p><strong>Option to enable Trusted Compute</strong>: Enable Trusted Compute to verify your worker nodes against tampering. If you don't enable trust during cluster creation but want to later, you can use the `{[bxcs]} feature-enable` [command](cs_cli_reference.html#cs_cluster_feature_enable). After you enable trust, you cannot disable it later. You can make a new cluster without trust. For more information about how trust works during the node startup process, see [{{site.data.keyword.containershort_notm}} with Trusted Compute](cs_secure.html#trusted_compute). Trusted Compute is available on clusters that run Kubernetes version 1.9 or later and have certain bare metal machine types. When you run the `{[bxcs]} machine-types <location>` [command](cs_cli_reference.html#cs_machine_types), you can see which machines support trust by reviewing the `Trustable` field.</p>
<p><strong>Bare metal machine type groups</strong>: Bare metal machine types come in groups that have different compute resources that you can choose from to meet your app's needs. Physical machine types have more local storage than virtual, and some have RAID to back up local data. To learn about the different types of bare metal offerings, see the `{[bxcs]} machine-type` [command](cs_cli_reference.html#cs_machine_types).
<ul><li>`mb1c.4x32`: If you don't need RAM- or data-intensive resources, choose this type for a balanced configuration of physical machine resources for your worker nodes. Balanced with 4 cores, 32GB Memory, 1TB SATA Primary Disk, 2TB SATA Secondary Disk, 10Gbps Bonded Network.</li>
<li>`mb1c.16x64`: If you don't need RAM- or data-intensive resources, choose this type for a balanced configuration of physical machine resources for your worker nodes. Balanced with 16 cores, 64GB Memory, 1TB SATA Primary Disk, 1.7TB SSD Secondary Disk, 10Gbps Bonded Network.</li>
<li>`mr1c.28x512`: Choose this type to maximize the RAM available to your worker nodes. RAM intensive with 28 cores, 512GB Memory, 1TB SATA Primary Disk, 1.7TB SSD Secondary Disk, 10Gbps Bonded Network.</li>
<li>`md1c.16x64.4x4tb`: Choose this type if your worker nodes require a significant amount of local disk storage, including RAID to back up the data stored locally on the machine. The 1TB primary storage disks are configured for RAID1, and the 4TB secondary storage disks are configured for RAID10. Data intensive with 28 cores, 512GB Memory, 2x1TB RAID1 Primary Disk, 4x4TB SATA RAID10 Secondary Disk, 10Gbps Bonded Network.</li>
<li>`md1c.28x512.4x4tb`: Choose this type if your worker nodes require a significant amount of local disk storage, including RAID to back up the data stored locally on the machine. The 1TB primary storage disks are configured for RAID1, and the 4TB secondary storage disks are configured for RAID10. Data intensive with 16 cores, 64GB Memory, 2x1TB RAID1 Primary Disk, 4x4TB SATA RAID10 Secondary Disk, 10Gbps Bonded Network.</li>

</ul></p></dd>
<dt>Virtual machines</dt>
<dd>When you create a standard virtual cluster, you must choose whether you want the underlying hardware to be shared by multiple {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} customers (multi tenancy) or to be dedicated to you only (single tenancy).
<p>In a multi-tenant set up, physical resources, such as CPU and memory, are shared across all virtual machines that are deployed to the same physical hardware. To ensure that every virtual machine can run independently, a virtual machine monitor, also referred to as the hypervisor, segments the physical resources into isolated entities and allocates them as dedicated resources to a virtual machine (hypervisor isolation).</p>
<p>In a single-tenant set up, all physical resources are dedicated to you only. You can deploy multiple worker nodes as virtual machines on the same physical host. Similar to the multi-tenant set up, the hypervisor assures that every worker node gets its share of the available physical resources.</p>
<p>Shared nodes are usually less costly than dedicated nodes because the costs for the underlying hardware are shared among multiple customers. However, when you decide between shared and dedicated nodes, you might want to check with your legal department to discuss the level of infrastructure isolation and compliance that your app environment requires.</p>
<p><strong>Virtual `u2c` or `b2c` machine types</strong>: These machines use local disk instead of storage area networking (SAN) for reliability. Reliability benefits include higher throughput when serializing bytes to the local disk and reduced file system degradation due to network failures. These machine types contain 25GB primary local disk storage for the OS file system, and 100GB secondary local disk storage for `/var/lib/docker`, the directory that all the container data is written to.</p>
<p><strong>Deprecated `u1c` or `b1c` machine types</strong>: To start using `u2c` and `b2c` machine types, [update the machine types by adding worker nodes](cs_cluster_update.html#machine_type).</p></dd>
</dl>
